PCP-1816 - Disk encryption guide for AWS EKS (#7578)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/clusters/public-cloud/aws/enable-disk-encryption-eks-cluster.md

specifically customer managed keys.

Once disk encryption is enabled, all current and new worker nodes in the cluster will have their root volumes encrypted
using the specified KMS key. This includes any disk changes made to the worker node pools using
[node pool customization](./eks.md#cloud-configuration-settings).

Enabling disk encryption on an existing cluster will trigger a
[worker node pool repave](../../cluster-management/node-pool.md#repave-behavior-and-configuration), which will replace
the existing worker nodes with new nodes that have encrypted root volumes. This may cause temporary downtime for
workloads operating on the cluster, so ensure you have planned for this before proceeding.

## Prerequisites

- An AWS account added to Palette. Review [Add AWS Account](add-aws-accounts.md) for guidance.

- The IAM user or role used by Palette has the required policies attached as listed in
  [Required IAM Policies](required-iam-policies.md), including the
  [**PaletteControllersEKSPolicy**](required-iam-policies.md#controllers-eks-policy) policy.

>   - The following additional permissions are required for Palette to list and use the KMS key for disk encryption:
> 
>     - `kms:ListKeys`
>     - `kms:ListAliases`
> 
>     Add these permissions to the **PaletteControllersEKSPolicy** policy in your AWS account.
> 
>     <details>

Author: ```suggestion
  - The following additional permissions are required for Palette to list and use the KMS key for disk encryption. Add these permissions to the **PaletteControllersEKSPolicy** policy in your AWS account:

    - `kms:ListKeys`
    - `kms:ListAliases`

    <details>
```

    <summary> Example PaletteControllersEKSPolicy Snippet </summary>

    ```json hideClipboard {11-12}
    ...
        {
          "Condition": {
            "ForAnyValue:StringLike": {
              "kms:ResourceAliases": "alias/cluster-api-provider-aws-*"
            }
          },
          "Action": [
            "kms:CreateGrant",
            "kms:DescribeKey",
            "kms:ListKeys",
            "kms:ListAliases"
          ],
          "Resource": [
            "*"
          ],
          "Effect": "Allow"
        }
    ...
    ```

    </details>

> - A KMS customer managed key created in the AWS region you intend to deploy EKS clusters using Palette. You will need to

Author: I know this is correct English, but AWS call them specifically "customer managed keys".

   [Create a Cluster Profile](../../../profiles/cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles.md)
   guide for more information.

4. Once you have configured your profile and are viewing the **Profile Layers** step, click on the **Kubernetes** layer
   to edit this pack.

5. Select **Values** in pack details and use the YAML editor to add the following configuration. Replace `<kms-key-id>`
   with the key ID of your AWS KMS key.

   ```yaml
   cloud:
     aws:
       encrypted: true
       encryptionKey: <kms-key-id>
   ```

   :::info

   The `cloud` section needs to be added at the top level of the YAML file, not nested under any other section.

   :::

6. Click **Confirm Updates** once you have added the configuration.

7. Click **Next** on the Profile Layers step.

8. Click **Finish Configuration**.

You can now use this cluster profile to [create a new EKS cluster](./eks.md) with disk encryption enabled. Wait till the
new cluster is fully provisioned before proceeding to [validate the disk encryption](#validate).

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="existing-cluster" label="Existing Cluster">

1. Log in to Palette.

2. In the left main menu, click **Profiles**.

> 3. Find the profile for your EKS cluster and click on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Locate and select your EKS cluster profile.
```

4. Create a new version of your cluster profile. Refer to the
   [Version a Cluster Profile](../../../profiles/cluster-profiles/modify-cluster-profiles/version-cluster-profile.md)
   guide for more information.

5. Click on the **Kubernetes** layer to edit the pack.

> 6. Select **Values** in pack details and use the YAML editor to add the following configuration. Replace `<kms-key-id>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Under **Pack Details**, select **Values** and use the YAML editor to add the following configuration. Replace `<kms-key-id>`
```

   with the key ID of your AWS KMS key.

   ```yaml
   cloud:
     aws:
       encrypted: true
       encryptionKey: <kms-key-id>
   ```

   :::info

   The `cloud` section needs to be added at the top level of the YAML file, not nested under any other section.

   :::

7. Click **Confirm Updates** once you have added the configuration.

> 8. Click **Save Changes** on the cluster profile page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. On the **Cluster Profile** page, click **Save Changes**.
```

9. In the left main menu, click **Clusters**.

> 10. Find the EKS cluster you want to update and click on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. Locate and select the EKS cluster you want to enable disk encryption on.
```

11. Click on the **Profile** tab.

12. Click the version drop-down menu for the infrastructure layers and select the new version of the cluster profile you
    just created, then click **Review & Save**.

13. In the pop-up window, click **Review changes in Editor**.

14. In the configuration diff window, review the configuration changes, then click **Update**.

    :::caution

    Once you click **Update**, a
    [worker node pool repave](../../cluster-management/node-pool.md#repave-behavior-and-configuration) is triggered,
    which will cause the worker nodes to be replaced with new nodes that have encrypted root volumes. This may cause
    temporary downtime for workloads operating on the cluster. Ensure you have planned for this downtime before
    proceeding.

    :::

15. Wait for the repave to complete before [validating the changes](#validate).

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Validate

1. Log in to the [Amazon EKS console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/eks/home#/clusters).

2. Find and click on your EKS cluster.

3. Click on the **Compute** tab and click on one of your worker pools within the **Node Groups** section.

> 4. In the **Node group configuration** section, click on the **Launch template** to view the details of the launch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In the **Node group configuration** section, click **Launch template** to view the details of the launch
```

   template used by the worker pool.

> 5. Click on the **Storage** tab in the **Launch template version details** section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. In the **Launch template version details** section, select the **Storage** tab. 
```

---
sidebar_label: "Enable Disk Encryption for EKS Cluster"
title: "Enable Disk Encryption for EKS Cluster"
description: "Learn how to use an AWS KMS key to encrypt root volumes for EKS cluster worker nodes."
tags: ["public cloud", "aws", "eks", "kms"]
sidebar_position: 45
---

Palette allows you to enable encryption on EBS root volumes for EKS cluster worker nodes using AWS KMS keys,
specifically customer managed keys. This guide will walk you through the prerequisites and steps to enable disk
encryption for your EKS clusters.

Once disk encryption is enabled, all current and new worker nodes in the cluster will have their root volumes encrypted
using the specified KMS key. This includes any disk changes made to the worker node pools using
[node pool customization](./eks.md#cloud-configuration-settings).

Enabling disk encryption on an existing cluster will trigger a
[worker node pool repave](../../cluster-management/node-pool.md#repave-behavior-and-configuration), which will replace
the existing worker nodes with new nodes that have encrypted root volumes. This may cause temporary downtime for

> workloads running on the cluster, so ensure you have planned for this before proceeding.

Author: ```suggestion
workloads operating on the cluster, so ensure you have planned for this before proceeding.
```

   with the key ID of your AWS KMS key.

   ```yaml
   cloud:
     aws:
       encrypted: true
       encryptionKey: <kms-key-id>
   ```

   :::info

   The `cloud` section needs to be added at the top level of the YAML file, not nested under any other section.

   :::

7. Click **Confirm Updates** once you have added the configuration.

8. Click **Save Changes** on the cluster profile page.

9. In the left main menu, click **Clusters**.

10. Find the EKS cluster you want to update and click on it.

11. Click on the **Profile** tab.

12. Click the version drop-down menu for the infrastructure layers and select the new version of the cluster profile you
    just created, then click **Review & Save**.

13. In the pop-up window, click **Review changes in Editor**.

14. In the configuration diff window, review the configuration changes, then click **Update**.

    :::caution

    Once you click **Update**, a
    [worker node pool repave](../../cluster-management/node-pool.md#repave-behavior-and-configuration) is triggered,
    which will cause the worker nodes to be replaced with new nodes that have encrypted root volumes. This may cause

>     temporary downtime for workloads running on the cluster. Ensure you have planned for this downtime before

Author: ```suggestion
    temporary downtime for workloads operating on the cluster. Ensure you have planned for this downtime before
```
